Competitive Advantage

Having a competitive advantage puts a firm in a favourable position over other businesses in the market. A travel company having an effective call centre management system will ensure that the company is reducing costs and able to carry out effective conversations to potentially convert every call. Companies are able to use their business systems to leverage the company against competitors as it can have positive effects on business functions.

Reducing Costs
Reducing costs is crucial for any company, reducing costs while still maintaining an appropriate operational performance is advantageous in a competitive market. When calls are managed through the CMS the end customer and relationship manager are matched appropriately, this will allow for less wastage time, more sales and reducing operational costs such as time spent on phone without sales and phone bills. Another form of costs may be the excess of travel agency stores, with the adoption of an efficient CMS companies are able to cut commercial rent costs, employees and other costs working in brick and mortar stores. A CMS will digitise the customer experience and further be able to increase the traffic as time spent with customers is reduced. For example an RM in a call centre using a CMS will have more foot traffic than an employee in a traditional brick and mortar store resulting in greater traffic and increased conversions hence cutting costs whilst increasing profits for the firm.


Customer loyalty and intimacy
Furthermore, the CMS will be able to match the customers wants and needs with the profile of the RM. Customers who are understood and being approached in a relatable matter are more likely to purchase products or in this case travel packages . The CMS will help the RMs learn about the customer upon opening an account or through the specified target list. Having RMs know crucial details about customers aid in engaging in conversation, building rapport, insights to wants, needs and pain points. After this RMs are able to use empathy and critical problem solving skills to convert the conversation into a sale. For example a customer is calling in to find packages for flights and accomodations for Dubai and can only speak arabic, the RM matched will be bilingual in arabic and have proficient knowledge on Dubai.The overarching idea here is that a CMS can help gain insights on customers and match RMs based on a similar criteria which  will boost customer experience and satisfaction, resulting in increased customer loyalty and intimacy, inturn putting the firm in a leading position. 

Productivity and Efficiency
Essentially, the overarching goal of the new system will be to improve and maintain productivity and efficiency. The system routes calls by skill therefore allows customers to be on the phone for a shorter period of time and overall gives the customer a more effective experience. When an agent is able to secure a sale at minimum touch points; that is without constant transfers or hold time due to being unknowledgeable on certain products, the agent is being more efficient and productive than just simply routing the calls to correct people or searching for information to give the customer. The system can make outbound calls using the target list which routes call to the appropriate customer, this results in reduced idle times where the agent is not merely waiting for a call to come through, therefore the agent is more productive. By implementing these features into the system the company is leveraging its operations to remain and sustain a competitive advantage. 
